these are the most important pollinators
for many agricultural crops and for
almost all fruit crops they give us a
higher yield and not all not only a
higher yield but also a better yield
from better quality as well inner
quality like taste as external quality
like size and shape of the fruits the
principal problem we're looking at with
honey bee decline has to be the varroa
mite it's not just the actual damage
that the varroa mite itself does to the
bee it's the viruses and apparently a 20
of them that it can inject into the bee
bees immunity system is based on its
social activity so if that reduces
immunity goes down and then they're
subject to all kinds of other pressures
we have causes was even having not
enough junk incubus we have causes of
environmental effects of maybe also
stress factors it's also a great iconic
economically problem because less
pollination means less production and we
need this production every year not only
one year and the other year not because
that also is not good for having a good
balance in the orchard
there's a lot of confusion about what
medicines are available how they get
into the hands of the beekeepers and
whether the beekeepers are qualified
have the information will have indeed
the money and to be able to use them
clearly the competence of beekeepers
needs to be maximized but even when
you've done that it isn't adequate if
you are not able to give them tools to
do the job I started actually my
professional career in Baia some 26
years ago working on the development of
parison and by virol and we are lucky to
have two of the most important active
ingredients that are very efficacious
against wairoa and at the same time safe
for the honey bees per hour the real
problem then we're very pleased in some
ways that we're at least going in the
right way when it comes to researching
products would be health because that's
what day has been doing for well well
over 20 years now
they need to get the information about
what products they have available out
there they need to get them authorized
and available in as many countries as
possible and we need to create a
critical mass of use so that we get
enough money into the system so that we
can get new products created yeah we
work we work in several ways hard for it
as i said in agriculture we're also a
seed producing company we fully
understand the importance of bees for
pollination and therefore for
productivity we work in animal health
where we try and develop medicines that
protect bees from getting sick so there
did several fronts that we're active on
I think from this event it shows that
now we have a time well this emotional
discussion is coming down and that's
good we're now coming up to an egg-based
discussion whenever I get an opportunity
particularly to meet not just
politicians but also to meet officials
who involved in government I like to
stimulate them to get on with the job I
think it's been a really fascinating
evening we're really a lot of people
have come together to actually untie and
understand some of the dynamics around
be held if you can go home from an event
like this thinking yeah I learn
something that's worth coming